# Hotel-Booking-Analysis
In this project we have performed Exploratory Data Analysis on Hotel Booking Data.The dataset contained details of online booking for city hotels and resort hotels.
Problem statement of the Hotel Booking Analysis is to explore and analyses the data to discover important factors that govern the bookings in two hotels, a City Hotel and a Resort Hotel. The data gives the details of the bookings at these two hotels over a three years period.
	To begin with we imported some of the required libraries for data analysis and visualizations. We loaded the data and go over the basic features, shape and datatypes of various variables. We observed the data contains duplicate records and null values. By using Pandas library we handled duplicate records and null values. By using box plots we found some outliers and manipulated those outliers with python conditional statements.  We added new parameters based on the existing ones, for ease of analysis. We also proceeded with asking some questions about the data at this stage which could be answered going forward.
To answer them, we proceeded with univariate analysis, where we analyzed each parameter in isolation through a count plot. We found few important observations like transients are most common customer type, about 96% are not repeated guest, in month of august most hotels are booked and most of the people prefer bed breakfast BB as their meal type during the stay.
Then, we looked into bivariate and tried to compare every variable with hotel, and found that city type of hotels is more into Online TA and resort type of hotels are more into direct segment and high percentage of bookings are cancelled in city type of hotel. 
Some of the hypothesis questions that we formed are, countries with maximum bookings, countries prefer which hotels, whether the cancellations are from repeated guests or the new ones, which one do guests prefer more, weekend or weekdays for the stay. How waiting time vary for different market segments and many more.
From the hypothesis questions we drew following conclusions, Maximum cancellations are from the new guests, despite maximum bookings are for city hotels, top 10 countries prefer resort hotels more. The percentage of cancellations is quite high in city type hotels as compared to resort type hotels. Online TA/TO is a segment through which maximum bookings happen, followed by offline TA/TO, repeated guests don’t prefer to book through online TA/TO, as special requests by guest increases the cancellation rate is decreasing, as far as stay is concerned people tend to prefer more of a week night for the stay than weekend nights, Group segment has maximum waiting time whereas aviation segment with minimum waiting time.

